---
layout:     post
author:     Nick
title:      "Fuck the algorithm, be you"
date:       2024-07-16
categories: reading
tags: reading
summary: People seem to be forgetting the most important thing, be yourself
---

Have you ever watched a video or listened to an interview that was so mind blowing you had to keep stopping it to try and let your brain catch up? That was me today while watching this interview with Palmer Luckey:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dBeosjr7PyY?si=5ojDTcYscDZSZb9f" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

There were so many things that Palmer covered in just the first 15 minutes that completely floored me. The hosts interviewing him were equally impressedand that when it occurred to me: Palmer seems amazing because he is just being himself, and he is just naturally curious.

So many people feel the need to present a certain "face" to the public. Their self stories are polished, with just the right amount of humility, and jus the right amount (but not too much!) pride in their accomplishments.

Palmer on the other hand just lays it out there. Crazy ideas, experiments that didn't work out, the pride he has in what he's created... It's front and center. And that is shocking, yet refreshing.

Instead of bowing to the expected path that people follow to "get attention" he is just being himself and that alone makes him stand out. And that is a secret so many people seem to fail to get: It doesn't matter what time of day you post, just post. It doesn't matter what SEO magic you try to use, just present what you are doing so a human understands it.

Don't try to beat the Social Media algorithms, be yourself and force the algorithm to pay attention to you.

Do something cool. Do something you would love to read about. Don't worry about making computers happy, make yourself happy.

Your people will find you. You will be happier.

Just be you. Do what you do.
