---
layout:     post
title:      "Blog mining"
date:       2005-12-09 04:52:36
categories: ai
---
I just read a really fascinating article about how blogs are being looked at as sources for data mining. Apparently a lot of companies out there realize that blogs are a great way for people to spread their opinion far and wide. So naturally a couple of companies have sprung up to supply information about what's going on in the blog world. Check out the article [here](http://money.cnn.com/2005/12/06/technology/blog_fsb/). Although I think all of the fuss about blogging has been blown out of proportion, I do think that the efforts described in the article are very interesting. The fact that algorithms are being used to determine not only the content of the post, but detail about who posted it just blows my mind. **This** is what Artificial Intelligence is supposed to be all about. Although I do find the claim that Umbria's spider can index the blogosphere in 20 minutes a bit hard to believe, I do fully believe that the data it gathers must be a virtual goldmine. Imagine the expert system that could be built using knowledge about a product, what the consumer thinks of it, and what demographic the consumer falls into. Its very Big Brother, but at the same time the applications are almost limitless. Over the last week or two I've been thinking it would be fun and interesting to try and collect the top search terms that are going around on the internet. I've started this little project and have been able to collect a fair amount of data, but I realized I didn't really have a good way to qualitatively look at the data (i.e. to find out what it is telling me). This article has inspired me to look a little bit harder because there is some potentially seriously useful information in there.
