---
layout:     post
title:      "Stargate needs viewers!"
date:       2006-08-11 22:15:35
categories: blogging
---
I'm a big fan of [Stargate SG:1](http://stargatesg1.com/). I just really started getting into it the last year or so, so I was really bummed the other day when I read that the ratings for the current season have been kinda low. Why is that? SG:1 hasn't been as strong as past season, but that's ok, you can't hit it out of the park every time you come to the plate. Plus there have been several good episodes this season. [Stargate Atlantis](http://stargateatlantis.com/) has actually been really good this season so far. Before this season I found it hard to get into Atlantis, it just didn't have the same spark. But this season, the stories have been really engaging and the character have really been clicking. But, to despite that, the ratings are still on the low side (although they are rivaling SG:1). So what's up with that? My theory is that the [SciFi channel](http://www.scifi.com/) hasn't done a very good job of advertising this new season. As a nerd I do watch the SciFi channel on occasion *cough cough*, and I hardly ever see ads for it. This is the 10th season for SG:1, and the only time I see ads for either Stargate is during Stargate. [Dragoncon](http://dragoncon.org/) is coming soon, yet here in Atlanta I see no ads (billboards, buses, tv, newspaper, etc.) for Stargate anywhere. Seems to me that the SciFi channel is missing a prime opportunity to a)Target the primary audience, and b) Get cross-over exposure to a new audience. Granted, there are some specials running (like next week's "Watch it live to get an access code to the website" offer), but they only advertised that during the end-credits of Atlantis!!! What kind of insane advertising plan is that? Its almost like they are trying to make sure the campaign fails... Ugh. I find a good show to get into just in time for it to auger in at the very end. Please watch the shows. And encourage your friends and family to watch them. For me? Please? Thanks. :)
