---
layout:     post
title:      "Ask.com steps it up"
date:       2006-06-10 09:22:23
categories: blogging
---
For a long time I've been a big fan of [A9](http://a9.com). But ever since they switched their back end from Google to Microsoft Live, things just haven't been the same. On the surface, I miss the images that A9 used to return with normal web results. With the new search engine, that doesn't seem to be an option anymore. Then there's the relevancy of the results. I don't know what it is, but I kept feeling like I wasn't getting as good of a result set with Live powering the site. Since that's the main reason why I use a search engine, I decided to strike out and look for a new site. Ask.com has recently relaunched and is claiming that they have had a complete overhaul. I used to use the site years ago (the plain english interface was fun/neat until google came along and just crushed everyone with their accuracy), so I decided to give the new site a spin. So far I'm really liking it. Fast, accurate, relevant, all the good things one needs in a search engine. [Go check out Ask.com](http://ask.com) and see for yourself! Now I'm sure someone out there is going to ask _"Why not just use Google?"_ and the answer is pretty simple: I think competition is good, it helps to bring out the best features/service/etc. I use Google for so much (simply because others aren't offering what they are) I thought it would be good to keep my eye out for the next big thing. I'm not saying that Ask will be the next big thing, but you never know... Plus, whose to say that Google has the market locked down? Some researcher out there might have the next big idea, but what if he/she doesn't work for Google? So, go check out [Ask](http://ask.com), and help encourage the next generation of search engines!
