---
layout:     post
title:      "Why so few post-apocalyptic themes?"
date:       2007-05-28 10:48:22
categories: blogging
---
This weekend while strolling through a bookstore, I noticed that there was a ton of [D&D;](http://www.wizards.com/default.asp?x=dnd/welcome) books. I looked closer at the selection and noticed something odd: Among all of the RPG books there, most were dedicated to game worlds based around magic (duh), werewolves, monsters, dragons, and other Tolkien type stories. There was one based on the future, but even that one had mutants which are the equivalent of monsters. Personally, I'm a fan of the post apocalyptic genre. For some reason I find the idea of starting over, or at least having to adjust rapidly in the aftermath of a disaster, to be really intriguing. Its a very accessible topic, after all it is based on the world of today, and there's no shortage of scenarios that can be drawn from that. Yet for some reason, there few RPG's (and to an extent comics/graphic novels also) that tap into this rich vein of material. I'm really puzzled by this, reality TV (shows like Survivor, etc.) shows that the general population is interested in the idea, yet this isn't reflected in a lot of other aspects of our entertainment. [Fallout](http://www.nma-fallout.com/) was quite popular, but that was almost 10 years ago. Lost and Jericho are popular, but few other shows seem to be following their example. Is there such a disconnect between the D&D; community and the rest of pop culture? Or is the idea of a post apocalyptic world just too scary, and in the post 9/11 and post Katrina world, too close to home? Or am I just shopping in the wrong stores?
