---
layout:     post
title:      "There is no gate address for Sci-Fi on Tuesdays"
date:       2010-10-06 18:45:15
categories: entertainment
---
Well, it looks like [the ratings for Stargate Universe continue to swirl around the black hole of cancellation](http://www.gateworld.net/news/2010/10/aftermath-continues-sgus-ratings-slide/). Tuesday nights just are not meant for sci-fi. Repeat after me: Friday night. That's when all of the hard workin' geeks out there (like myself) just want to kick back with a cold beverage and let the TV watch them. Tuesday nights, that the most boring night of the week. Tuesday is just the graveyard that Monday gets buried in. I'm not a fan of SGU, I stopped watching after the mid-season finale last season, but the show has some hope. I think they could do a lot to make it super exciting like SG-1 (and to a lesser extent SGA) used to be... But handicapping them by putting the show on Tuesday night. Wow, that is like a nail in the coffin. I am not sure what the advertising for the show was like this season, I sure have not seen non-stop promos for it. Maybe SyFy wants the show to tank... That's a bit of a shame, the franchise is a great concept. It seems like they tried too hard to make it into Battle-Stargate-Galactica with this incarnation, but hey, at least it wasn't vampires. (Atlantis, I am looking sternly in your direction...) At any rate, seeing this post has inspired me to compare the ratings for the various shows to see if this is an isolated thing, or is the series really sinking. My current hypothesis is that it is probably not doing real well. Hopefully the next iteration (if there is one) will avenge the fallen.
